
Today I finished my first project in RStudio. I built a GitHub page
through R that teaches visitors how to access an API, building
user-friendly functions in the process, as well as performing
exploratory data analysis.

When I first glanced at the Project instructions, I was both excited and
intimidated. The estimated amount of time seemed like a lot\! However, I
was glad to be able to choose the API I wanted to access using a
provided list. Initially I chose the [Covid-19
API](https://covid19api.com/), but became frustrated when a network
error lasted all day, putting the project on hold. Since I had only
written a function to access the API up to that point, I decided to
start over and choose the OneCall portion of the [OpenWeather
API](https://openweathermap.org/api/one-call-api#data).

The longer I spent coding my way through this project, the more I
enjoyed the process of function writing, debugging, discovering trends
in the graphs I created, and committing my thoughts to the R Markdown
notebook. The most difficult part of the process was getting over the
intimidation of using the render() function to render the document
instead of using the knit button, as well as having to add, commit, and
push my changes regularly to GitHub. In retrospect, these are both very
easy processes that didn’t take much time or brain power, but the fact
that I couldn’t visualize how these processes function made both tasks
seem difficult at first.

As far as the logic and programming, I didn’t have much trouble. The
hardest part was probably looking up new functions for data cleaning as
well as making decisions about what contingency tables, numerical
summaries, and plots I wanted to make. However, that was also the most
fun. Imagining interesting comparisons between variables and then
working to put together the necessary code to create the plot built
suspense because I was excited to see the result.

If I were to do this project over again (which I may do it just for fun
with a different API), I would become more familiar with what functions
and options are allowed to be used when rendering a github document in R
Markdown. I ran into a few issues with leaflet() and a few other
functions that easily work in HTML output, but are more tricky to
include in GitHub pages. Becoming familiar with these limitations would
save me hours of Google searches in the future.

Overall, I really enjoyed this project, including the learning process
as well as the final vignette I created. I’m looking forward to tackling
more stuff like this in the future\!

To check out my project, visit <https://atbiggie.github.io/Project1/>  
To see my Project 1 Repository, visit
<https://github.com/atbiggie/Project1>  
To see the repository that hosts my blog, visit
<https://github.com/atbiggie/atbiggie.github.io>
